Haploid: none

Primary structure: none

Dynorphin: none

Nervous system: 
 nerves radiating from the brain and central cord. The size of the nervous system ranges from a few hundred cells in the simplest worms, to around 300 billion cells in African elephants.  The central nervous system functions to send signals from one cell to others, or from one part of the b

Serotonin: 
rve to stimulate the digestive tract into expelling the seeds.  Serotonin is also present in plants as phytoserotonin.History and etymology In 1935, Italian Vittorio Erspamer showed an extract from enterochromaffin cells made intestines contract. Some believed it contained adrenaline, b

Histamine H2 receptor: none

Phosphopeptide: none

Kinase: 
.History and classification  The first protein to be recognized as catalyzing the phosphorylation of another protein using ATP was observed in 1954 by Gene Kennedy at which time he described a liver enzyme that catalyzed the phosphorylation of casein. In 1956, Edmond H. Fischer and Edwin

Intermembrane space: none

Radioisotopic labelling: none

Erythropoietin receptor: none

Phospholipid: 
 phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline, ethanolamine or serine.  The first phospholipid identified in 1847 as such in biological tissues was lecithin, or phosphatidylcholine, in the egg yolk of chickens by the French chemist and pharmacist, Theodo

Structure: none

Synapse: 
 word "synapse" – from the Greek ''synapsis'' (), meaning "conjunction", in turn from  ( ("together")  and  ("to fasten")) – was introduced in 1897 by the English neurophysiologist Charles Sherrington in Michael Foster's ''Textbook of Physiology''. Sherrington struggled to find a good te

Structural domain: none

Macromolecule: none

Kallidin: none

Vitamin D-dependent calcium-binding protein: none

Neoplasm protein: none

Chemical thermodynamics: 
utlines the mathematical framework of chemical thermodynamics.History right|thumb|J. Willard Gibbs - founder of ''chemical thermodynamics'' In 1865, the German physicist Rudolf Clausius, in his ''Mechanical Theory of Heat'', suggested that the principles of thermochemistry, e.g. the hea

Atp synthase: none

Peptide initiation factor: none

Microbe: 
ure'' by Marcus Terentius Varro. Microbiology, the scientific study of microorganisms, began with their observation under the microscope in the 1670s by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek. In the 1850s, Louis Pasteur found that microorganisms caused food spoilage, debunking the theory of spontaneous 

Cyclin A: none

Concanavalin A: none

Aminobutyric acid: none

Calcium signaling: none

Atrial natriuretic factor receptor: none

Phenotype: 
er coloring; while the coat color depends on many genes, it is clearly seen in the environment as yellow, black and brown.  Richard Dawkins in 1978 and then again in his 1982 book ''The Extended Phenotype'' suggested that bird nests and other built structures such as caddis fly larvae ca

Citric acid: none

Lactic acid: 
 after blood loss due to trauma, surgery, or burns.History Swedish chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele was the first person to isolate lactic acid in 1780 from sour milk. The name reflects the ''lact-'' combining form derived from the Latin word ''lac'', which means milk. In 1808, Jöns Jacob Be

Tachykinin: none

Chemical property: none

Competitive inhibition: none

Immunoglobulin: 
''Antikörper'' (the German word for ''antibody'') appears in the conclusion of his article "Experimental Studies on Immunity", published in October 1891, which states that, "if two substances give rise to two different ''Antikörper'', then they themselves must be different". However, the ter

Heterocyclic compound: 
% of US FDA-approved drugs contain nitrogen heterocycles. History of heterocyclic chemistry  The history of heterocyclic chemistry began in the 1800s, in step with the development of organic chemistry.  Some noteworthy developments: 1818: Brugnatelli isolates alloxan from uric acid 1832: 

Deuterium: 
formed from the Greek ''deuteros'', meaning "second", to denote the two particles composing the nucleus. Deuterium was discovered and named in 1931 by Harold Urey. When the neutron was discovered in 1932, this made the nuclear structure of deuterium obvious, and Urey won the Nobel Prize 

Chemistry: 
 as new discoveries and theories add to the functionality of the science. The term "chymistry", in the view of noted scientist Robert Boyle in 1661, meant the subject of the material principles of mixed bodies. In 1663, the chemist Christopher Glaser described "chymistry" as a scientifi

Mixture: none

Electron volt: none

Formaldehyde: 
es from its similarity and relation to formic acid.  Formaldehyde is an important precursor to many other materials and chemical compounds. In 1996, the installed capacity for the production of formaldehyde was estimated at 8.7 million tons per year.Günther Reuss, Walter Disteldorf, Arm

Chromosomal crossover: 
sing over was described, in theory, by Thomas Hunt Morgan. He relied on the discovery of Frans Alfons Janssens who described the phenomenon in 1909 and had called it "chiasmatypie". The term ''chiasma'' is linked, if not identical, to chromosomal crossover. Morgan immediately saw the gre

Somatropin: 
and has been banned by the IOC and NCAA.  Traditional urine analysis does not detect doping with HGH, so the ban was not enforced until the early 2000s, when blood tests that could distinguish between natural and artificial HGH were starting to be developed. Blood tests conducted by WADA at

Endothelin receptor: none

Neuropeptide Y: none

Bombesin receptor: none

Transforming growth factor beta: none

Melanocyte-stimulating hormone: none

Vitronectin: none

Bacteria: 
erial phyla have species that can be grown in the laboratory (specifically unculturable phyla, known as candidate phyla, make up 103 out of approximately 142 known phyla).  The study of bacteria is known as bacteriology, a branch of microbiology.  Virtually all animal life on earth is dependent on

Organism: 
on have been documented. More than 99% of all species, amounting to over five billion species, that ever lived are estimated to be extinct. In 2016, a set of 355 genes from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) of all organisms was identified.Evolutionary history  Last universal com

Thylakoid: none

Oxidation number: 
 term has since been generalized to imply a ''formal'' loss of electrons. Oxidation states, called ''oxidation grades'' by Friedrich Wöhler in 1835, were one of the intellectual stepping stones that Dmitri Mendeleev used to derive the periodic table. Jensen gives an overview of the hist

Urea: 
y used in fertilizers as a source of nitrogen (N) and is an important raw material for the chemical industry.  Friedrich Wöhler's discovery in 1828 that urea can be produced from inorganic starting materials was an important conceptual milestone in chemistry. It showed for the first time

Ras gene: 
, by Edward M. Scolnick and colleagues at the National Institutes of Health (NIH).  These viruses were discovered originally in rats during the 1960s by Jennifer Harvey and Werner Kirsten, respectively, hence the name '''Ra'''t '''s'''arcoma. In 1982, activated and transforming human ''ras

Amyloid: none

Src-family kinase: none

Genetic fingerprint: 
gies''. 3rd ed. Boca Raton ,FL. CRC Press, 2012. p815 to establish immigration eligibility,DNA pioneer's 'eureka' moment  BBC. Retrieved 14 October 2011 and in genealogical and medical research. DNA profiling has also been used in the study of animal and plant populations in the fields of zoo

Nuclear localization signal: none

Transmembrane protein: none

Dopamine receptor: none

Myeloma protein: 
" of the blood), and kidney damage.History The concept and the term ''paraprotein'' were introduced by the Berlin pathologist Dr Kurt Apitz in 1940,Apitz K. ''Die Paraproteinosen. Über die Störungen des Eiweißstoffwechsels bei Plasmozytomen.'' Virchows Arch Pathol Anat 1940;306:630-699.

Oncogene: 
cogenes. Usually multiple oncogenes, along with mutated apoptotic or tumor suppressor genes will all act in concert to cause cancer.  Since the 1970s, dozens of oncogenes have been identified in human cancer. Many cancer drugs target the proteins encoded by oncogenes.The Nobel Prize in Ph

Intermediate filament: none

Odorant receptor: 
 of the class A rhodopsin-like family of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). The olfactory receptors form a multigene family consisting of around 800 genes in humans and 1400 genes in mice.

Albumin: none

Environmental chemistry: none

Sodium-hydrogen antiporter: none

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor: none

Flavoprotein: none

Biosalinity: 
dered unsuitable for agriculture, and agricultural development of these areas was not systematically attempted until the second half of the 20th century.  Research in biosalinity includes studies of the biochemical and physiological mechanisms of salt tolerance in plants, breeding and select

Life: 
xplanations of the appearance of organisms; it held sway for two millennia. It was decisively dispelled by the experiments of Louis Pasteur in 1859, who expanded upon the investigations of predecessors such as Francesco Redi. Disproof of the traditional ideas of spontaneous generation i

Biodiversity: 
0 million to 14 million, of which about 1.2 million have been documented and over 86 percent have not yet been described. More recently, in May 2016, scientists reported that 1 trillion species are estimated to be on Earth currently with only one-thousandth of one percent described. The 

Cytochrome P-450: none

Retinoblastoma protein: none

Chromatid: none

Heat shock protein: none

Photophosphorylation: 


Cell membrane transport: 
t uses an electrochemical gradient. An example of active transport in human physiology is the uptake of glucose in the intestines. History  In 1848, the German physiologist Emil du Bois-Reymond suggested the possibility of active transport of substances across membranes.Du Bois-Reymond,

Amine: none

Cyclin B: none

Solution: none

N-formylmethionine: none

Nucleic acid: 
d parts and most chemical processes of all life forms. History  thumb|The Swiss scientist Friedrich Miescher discovered nucleic acids (DNA) in 1878.He called them nuclein. Later, he raised the idea that they could be involved in heredity.Bill Bryson, ''A Short History of Nearly Everythi

Molecular modelling: none

Neutral theory of molecular evolution: 
, Motoo. (1983). ''The neutral theory of molecular evolution.'' Cambridge  The theory was introduced by the Japanese biologist Motoo Kimura in 1968, and independently by two American biologists Jack Lester King and Thomas Hughes Jukes in 1969, and described in detail by Kimura in his 19

Hydrophilic: none

Microevolution: none

Intermediate filament protein: none

Genetic engineering: 
A construct is usually created and used to insert this DNA into the host organism. The first recombinant DNA molecule was made by Paul Berg in 1972 by combining DNA from the monkey virus SV40 with the lambda virus. As well as inserting genes, the process can be used to remove, or "knock 

Nucleotide: none

Kinesin: none

Heterozygote: none

Rho factor: 
 where it unwinds the hybrid duplex structure. RNA polymerase pauses at the termination sequence, which is because there is a specific site around 100 nt away from the Rho binding site called the Rho-sensitive pause site. So, even though the RNA polymerase is about 40 nt per second faster t

Arrestin: none

Ether: none

Double helix: 
dary structure, and is a fundamental component in determining its tertiary structure. The term entered popular culture with the publication in 1968 of ''The Double Helix: A Personal Account of the Discovery of the Structure of DNA'' by James Watson.   The DNA double helix biopolymer of n

Dactinomycin: 
ily of medications. It is believed to work by blocking the creation of RNA.  Dactinomycin was approved for medical use in the United States in 1964. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. The

Calbindin: none

