Energy density: none

Intermittent energy source: 


Tidal power: 
in the 19th century.  The world's first large-scale tidal power plant was the Rance Tidal Power Station in France, which became operational in 1966. It was the largest tidal power station in terms of output until Sihwa Lake Tidal Power Station opened in South Korea in August 2011. The S

Nuclear fusion: 
more fissionable. The extreme astrophysical event of a supernova can produce enough energy to fuse nuclei into elements heavier than iron.  In 1920, Arthur Eddington suggested hydrogen-helium fusion could be the primary source of stellar energy. Quantum tunneling was discovered by Fried

Primary energy: none

Dark energy: 
 space, tending to accelerate the expansion of the universe.  Dark energy is the most accepted hypothesis to explain the observations since the 1990s indicating that the universe is expanding at an accelerating rate.  Assuming that the standard model of cosmology is correct, the best curre

Solar energy: 
l of solar energy was 1,575–49,837 exajoules (EJ). This is several times larger than the total world energy consumption, which was 559.8 EJ in 2012.  In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that "the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will

Hydroelectricity: 
Central China is the world's largest power–producing facility of any kind.  '''Hydroelectricity''' is electricity produced from hydropower. In 2015, hydropower generated 16.6% of the world's total electricity and 70% of all renewable electricity,http://www.ren21.net/wp-content/uploads/2

Energy conversion efficiency: none

Mechanical energy: none

Work (physics): none

Energy-depth relationship in a rectangular channel: none

Marine energy: 
n Trust, ''Future Marine Energy. Results of the Marine Energy Challenge: Cost competitiveness and growth of wave and tidal stream energy'', January 2006

Energy field disturbance: none

Negative energy: none

Energy security: none

Electric potential energy: none

Energy carrier: none

Thermodynamic free energy: 
orce'' that caused chemical reactions.  The term affinity, as used in chemical relation, dates back to at least the time of Albertus Magnus in 1250.  From the 1998 textbook ''Modern Thermodynamics''  Chapter 4, Section 1, Paragraph 2 (page 103) by Nobel Laureate and chemistry professor 

E-statistics: 
cterizes  the equality of distributions: D(F,G) = 0 if and '''only if''' F = G. Energy distance for statistical applications was introduced in 1985 by Gábor J. Székely, who proved that for real-valued random variables  is exactly twice Harald Cramér's distance:Cramér, H. (1928) On the co

Osmotic power: 
This byproduct is the result of natural forces that are being harnessed: the flow of fresh water into seas that are made up of salt water.  In 1954, Pattle suggested that there was an untapped source of power when a river mixes with the sea, in terms of the lost osmotic pressure, howeve

Energy medicine: 
ingtrust.org.uk, Accessed March 4, 2017 ''Faith healing,'' by contrast, takes place within a traditional religious context.Harriet Hall, 26 January 2010: faith-healing (see in particular, section: '''The Evidence for Faith Healing''': "... When faith healings have been diligently investigate

Breeder reactor: 
s were at first found attractive because they made more complete use of uranium fuel than light water reactors, but interest declined after the 1960s as more uranium reserves were found,Helmreich, J.E. ''Gathering Rare Ores: The Diplomacy of Uranium Acquisition, 1943–1954'', Princeton UP, 

Vacuum energy: 
is energy? – Scientific American. [ONLINE] Available at: http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/follow-up-what-is-the-zer/. [Accessed 27 September 2016].  The effects of vacuum energy can be experimentally observed in various phenomena such as spontaneous emission, the Casimir effect and th

Surface energy: none

Quasar: 
quasar" originated as a contraction of '''quasi-stellar''' ''[star-like]'' '''radio source''', because quasars were first identified during the 1950s as sources of radio-wave emission of unknown physical origin, and when identified in photographic images at visible wavelengths they resembl

Energy drink: 
ctive ingredients, both known stimulants: coca leaves and kola nuts (a source of caffeine). Fresh coca leaves were replaced by "spent" ones in 1904 because of concerns over the use of cocaine in food products; the federal lawsuit ''United States v. Forty Barrels and Twenty Kegs of Coca-C

Interaction energy: none

Direct Energy: 


Energy management software: none

Internal energy: none

Turbulence kinetic energy: none

Seismic scale: none

Energy flow (ecology): 
ppears to have grown out of the Age of Enlightenment and the concerns of the Physiocrats. It began in the works of Sergei Podolinsky in the late 1800s, and subsequently was developed by the Soviet ecologist Vladmir Stanchinsky, the Austro-American Alfred J. Lotka, and American limnologists

Alternative energy: 
ior. Historian Norman F. Cantor describes how:  Europeans had lived in the midst of vast forests throughout the earlier medieval centuries. After 1250 they became so skilled at deforestation that by 1500 AD they were running short of wood for heating and cooking... By 1500 Europe was on the

Solar thermal energy: 
in the residential and commercial sectors.History Augustin Mouchot demonstrated a solar collector with a cooling engine making ice cream at the 1878 Universal Exhibition in Paris. The first installation of solar thermal energy equipment occurred in the Sahara approximately in 1910 by Fran

Nuclear power: 


Energy Slave: 
he non-human infrastructure.History The term was first used by R. Buckminster Fuller in the caption of an illustration for the cover of the February 1940 issue of ''Fortune'' magazine, entitled "World Energy".  Alfred Ubbelohde also coined the term, apparently independently, in his 1955 book, 

Photosynthesis: 
f the Earth, which rendered the evolution of complex life possible. Today, the average rate of energy capture by photosynthesis globally is approximately 130 terawatts, which is about eight times the current power consumption of human civilization. Photosynthetic organisms also convert around 100–

Gravitational potential: none

Energy accounting: none

Energy transfer: 
 until this was generally accepted. The modern analog of this property, kinetic energy, differs from ''vis viva'' only by a factor of two.  In 1807, Thomas Young was possibly the first to use the term "energy" instead of ''vis viva'', in its modern sense. Gustave-Gaspard Coriolis descri

Gravitational energy: none

Energy level: 
rmula is that the ''n''th shell can in principle hold up to 2(''n''2) electrons.Re: Why do electron shells have set limits ? madsci.org, 17 March 1999, Dan Berger, Faculty Chemistry/Science, Bluffton College Since electrons are electrically attracted to the nucleus, an atom's electrons wil

Dyson's sphere: 


Characteristic energy: none

Orders of magnitude (energy): none

Energy accidents: 


Energy harvesting: none

Energy–momentum relation: none

Energy engineering: none

Magnetic confinement fusion: 
okamak fusion reactor at École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland which has been used in research since it was built in 1992.  The characteristic torus-shaped chamber is clad with graphite to help withstand the extreme heat (the shape is distorted by the camera's 

E-statistic: 
cterizes  the equality of distributions: D(F,G) = 0 if and '''only if''' F = G. Energy distance for statistical applications was introduced in 1985 by Gábor J. Székely, who proved that for real-valued random variables  is exactly twice Harald Cramér's distance:Cramér, H. (1928) On the co

Activation energy: 
le number of molecules with translational energy equal to or greater than the activation energy.  The term Activation Energy was introduced in 1889 by the Swedish scientist Svante Arrhenius.

Energy quality: none

Fuel: 
 depleted around the 18th century. Charcoal briquettes are now commonly used as a fuel for barbecue cooking.  Coal was first used as a fuel around 1000 BCE in China. With the energy in the form of chemical energy that could be released through combustion, but the concept  development of the ste

Energy being: none

Energy: 
 until this was generally accepted. The modern analog of this property, kinetic energy, differs from ''vis viva'' only by a factor of two.  In 1807, Thomas Young was possibly the first to use the term "energy" instead of ''vis viva'', in its modern sense. Gustave-Gaspard Coriolis descri

Nuclear reactor: 
ct heating. Some reactors are used to produce isotopes for medical and industrial use, or for production of weapons-grade plutonium.  As of early 2019, the IAEA reports there are 454 nuclear power reactors and 226 nuclear research reactors in operation around the world.

Specific energy: none

Energy development: 


Entropy: 
. In other words, in any natural process there exists an inherent tendency towards the dissipation of useful energy. Building on this work, in 1824 Lazare's son Sadi Carnot published ''Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire'' which posited that in all heat-engines, whenever "caloric" (w

Energy applications of nanotechnology: none

American Museum of Science and Energy: 
yed in the Manhattan Project. The museum opened as the American Museum of Atomic Energy in 1949Opening of AMSE , AMSE website, retrieved 12 June 2009 in an old World War II cafeteria on Jefferson Circle.  It moved to its second facility in 1975 and was renamed AMSE in 1978.History , AMSE w

Energy gel: 
 that can be peeled off to reveal an opening through which the gel can be consumed.History Sports energy gels emerged in the United Kingdom in 1986 as a "convenient, prewrapped, portable" way to deliver carbohydrates during endurance events. Gels have a gooey texture and are sometimes re

Specific kinetic energy: none

Units of energy: none

Potential energy: 
ty of Glasgow'', vol. 3, no. 5, pages 276–280; reprinted in: '''(1)''' ''Philosophical Magazine'', series 4, vol. 5, no. 30, pages 106–117 (February 1853); and '''(2)''' W. J. Millar, ed., ''Miscellaneous Scientific Papers: by W. J. Macquorn Rankine'', ... (London, England: Charles Griffin an

Mass–energy equivalence: 
e originally from special relativity as a paradox described by Henri Poincaré.. See also the English translation Einstein proposed it on 21 November 1905, in the paper ''Does the inertia of a body depend upon its energy-content?'', one of his ''Annus Mirabilis (Miraculous Year) papers''.. See

Ecological energetics: 
ppears to have grown out of the Age of Enlightenment and the concerns of the Physiocrats. It began in the works of Sergei Podolinsky in the late 1800s, and subsequently was developed by the Soviet ecologist Vladmir Stanchinsky, the Austro-American Alfred J. Lotka, and American limnologists

Energy-efficient landscaping: none

Renewable energy: 
ased on REN21's 2017 report, renewables contributed 19.3% to humans' global energy consumption and 24.5% to their generation of electricity in 2015 and 2016, respectively. This energy consumption is divided as 8.9% coming from traditional biomass, 4.2% as heat energy (modern biomass, geo

Zero-point energy: 
iated aethers were part of the fabric of space itself. Maxwell himself noted that:  However, the results of the Michelson–Morley experiment in 1887 were the first strong evidence that the then-prevalent aether theories were seriously flawed, and initiated a line of research that eventual

Encircled energy: none

Energy Storage Challenge: 
iness School in spring 2006; the first energy competition took place in summer 2011. OmniCompete has also run the Global Security Challenge since 2006.   Fundamental Ideas Challenge 2010   The Fundamental Ideas Challenge looked for fresh ideas about systems that could provide transportable

Energy (esotericism): 
d emerged from the debate over vitalism in the 18th and 19th centuries with Mesmer and the magnetism. They continued to be discussed in the 20th century by some thinkers and practitioners in the modern New Age movement.  As biologists studied embryology and developmental biology, particularly

History of energy: 
tury until this was generally accepted.  Émilie marquise du Châtelet in her book Institutions de Physique ("Lessons in Physics"), published in 1740, incorporated the idea of Leibniz with practical observations of Gravesande to show that the "quantity of motion" of a moving object is pro

Embodied energy: none

Energy transformation: none

Power (physics): none

Black hole: 
tical galaxy Messier 87, with a mass ~7 billion times the Sun's, as depicted in the first image released by the Event Horizon Telescope (10 April 2019). Visible are the crescent-shaped emission ring and central shadow, which are gravitationally magnified views of the black hole's photon ri

Equipartition theorem: 
ding SI unit of ''J/(mol·K)'', such values should be multiplied by 4.2'' J/cal.  The equipartition of kinetic energy was proposed initially in 1843, and more correctly in 1845, by John James Waterston. (abstract only). Published in full  Reprinted  (reprinted in his ''Papers'', '''3''',

Specific orbital energy: none

Electric Bond and Share Company: 
ion took twenty-five years of legal action to break up Ebasco and the other major U.S. electric holding companies until they conformed with the 1935 act. It was allowed to retain control of its foreign electric power holding company known as the American & Foreign Power Company (A&FP). Af

Enthalpy: 
latively late, in the early 20th century, in analogy with the 19th-century terms ''energy'' (introduced in its modern sense by Thomas Young in 1802) and ''entropy'' (coined in analogy to ''energy'' by Rudolf Clausius in 1865).  Where ''energy'' uses the root of the Greek word  (ergon) "

Energy value of coal: none

Zero-energy building: none

Zero-energy universe: 
of the Universe - Michio Kaku, Jennifer Trainer Thompson - Oxford University Press, 1997 - p189  The zero-energy universe theory originated in 1973, when Edward Tryon proposed in the journal ''Nature'' that the universe emerged from a large-scale quantum fluctuation of vacuum energy, re

Latent heat: 
ion involved in phase changes, i.e. a substance condensing or vaporizing at a specified temperature and pressure.   The term was introduced around 1762 by British chemist Joseph Black. It is derived from the Latin ''latere'' (''to lie hidden''). Black used the term in the context of calorime

Energy–maneuverability theory: 
ne is excellent but a good fighter must also go fast.  Boyd, a U.S. jet fighter pilot in the Korean War, began developing the theory in the early 1960s.  He teamed with mathematician Thomas Christie at Eglin Air Force Base to use the base's high-speed computer to compare the performance env

Energy system: none

Conservation of energy: 
mposed of four roots (earth, air, water, fire), "nothing comes to be or perishes"; instead, these elements suffer continual rearrangement.  In 1605, Simon Stevinus was able to solve a number of problems in statics based on the principle that perpetual motion was impossible.  In 1639, Ga

Threshold energy: none

Energy monitoring and targeting: 
reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.History M&T is an established technique that was first launched as a national program in the UK in 1980, and has since then spread throughout Europe. These techniques are now also rapidly growing in America.

Energy storage: none

Decay energy: none

Energy amplifier: none

Energy technology: none

Qi: none

Energy flux: none

