Coalescent theory: 
m occurrence of mutations in these alleles.  The mathematical theory of the coalescent was developed independently by several groups in the early 1980s as a natural extension of classical population genetics theory and models, but can be primarily attributed to John Kingman. Advances in coal

Catagenesis (biology): none

Signalling theory: none

Artificial selection: none

Evolution of mammalian auditory ossicles: 
w bones and mammalian middle-ear bones was first established on the basis of embryology and comparative anatomy by Karl Bogislaus Reichert (in 1837, before the publication of ''On the Origin of Species'' in 1859) and advanced by Ernst Gaupp and this is known as the ''Reichert–Gaupp theo

Evolution of the wolf: none

Evolutionary psychology: 
en impressive." "social behaviour, animal." Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica, 2011. Web. 23 January 2011. .  The theories and findings of evolutionary psychology have applications in many fields, including economics, environment, health, law, m

Atavism: none

Vestigiality: 
otle."History of Animals" (Book 1, Chapter 9) However, only in recent centuries have anatomical vestiges become a subject of serious study. In 1798, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire noted on vestigial structures:  His colleague, Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, named a number of vestigial structure

Microevolution: none

Genotype-environment correlation: none

The Selfish Gene: 
ng the  gene-centred view of evolution (as opposed to the views focused on the organism and the group), popularising ideas developed during the 1960s by W. D. Hamilton and others. From the gene-centred view, it follows that the more two individuals are genetically related, the more sense (

Experimental evolution: 
F up to 158 °F. The early cultures had shown clear signs of distress at a temperature of 73 °F, and were certainly not capable of surviving at 158 °F. The organisms Dallinger had in his incubator at the end of the experiment, on the other hand, were perfectly fine at 158 °F. However, th

Homologous chromosomes: 
itance patterns of genetic material from an organism to its offspring parent developmental cell at the given time and area.History Early in the 1900s William Bateson and Reginald Punnett were studying genetic inheritance and they noted that some combinations of alleles appeared more freque

Common descent: 
recent common ancestor. There is massive evidence of common descent of all life on Earth from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA). In July 2016, scientists reported identifying a set of 355 genes from the LUCA by comparing the genomes of the three domains of life, archaea, bacteria,

Paleobiology: none

Evolutionarily stable strategy: 
he possibility of gross external changes to the environment that bring new selective forces to bear.  First published as a specific term in the 1972 book by John Maynard Smith, the ESS is widely used in behavioural ecology and economics, and has been used in anthropology, evolutionary psy

Evolution of sexual reproduction: none

Sean B. Carroll: none

Domestication: 
er before the advent of ceramic technology, appears to have been domesticated. The domesticated bottle gourd reached the Americas from Asia by 8000 BCE, most likely due to the migration of peoples from Asia to America.  Cereal crops were first domesticated around 9000 BCE in the Fertile Cre

The Major Transitions in Evolution: none

Natural selection: 
 selection is a cornerstone of modern biology. The concept, published by Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in a joint presentation of papers in 1858, was elaborated in Darwin's influential 1859 book ''On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured

Evolution of insects: 
 groups became extinct during the mass extinction at the Permo-Triassic boundary, the largest extinction event in the history of the Earth, around 252 million years ago. The survivors of this event evolved in the Triassic (252 to 201 million years ago) to what are essentially the modern ins

Hermann Joseph Muller: none

Climatic adaptation: none

Preadaptation: none

Evolutionary taxonomy: 
ecies can be inferred as giving  rise to new groups. The concept found its most well-known form in the modern evolutionary synthesis of the early 1940s.  Evolutionary taxonomy differs from strict pre-Darwinian Linnaean taxonomy (producing orderly lists only), in that it builds evolutionary 

Gene flow: none

Quantum evolution: none

Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution: 
sky, criticising anti-evolution creationism and espousing theistic evolution. The essay was first published in ''American Biology Teacher'' in 1973.; reprinted in   Dobzhansky first used the title statement, in a slight variation, in a 1964 presidential address to the American Society o

Genetic hitchhiking: 
d background selection are stochastic (random) evolutionary forces, like genetic drift.History Although the term ''hitchhiking'' was coined in 1974 by Maynard Smith and John Haigh, the phenomenon it refers to remained little studied until the work of John H. Gillespie in 2000.

Sociobiology: 
nt, so also it led to the genetic evolution of advantageous social behavior.  While the term "sociobiology" originated at least as early as the 1940s, the concept did not gain major recognition until the publication of E. O. Wilson's book ''Sociobiology: The New Synthesis'' in 1975. The n

Species: 
r (snakes, scorpions and certain biting ants). John Ray, an English naturalist, was the first to attempt a biological definition of species in 1686, as follows:  upright|thumb|Carl Linnaeus created the binomial system for naming species.  In the 18th century, the Swedish scientist Carl 

Most recent common ancestor: 
-MRCA) respectively.  The age of the human MRCA is unknown. It is necessarily younger than the age of both Y-MRCA and mt-MRCA, estimated at around 200,000 years.  The Last Universal Common Ancestor (LUCA) is the most recent common ancestor of all current life on Earth, estimated to have li

Language: 
mulated 3,959 rules of Sanskrit morphology. However, Sumerian scribes already studied the differences between Sumerian and Akkadian grammar around 1900 BC. Subsequent grammatical traditions developed in all of the ancient cultures that adopted writing.  In the 17th century AD, the French Port-

Allopatric speciation: 
 geographic, semi-geographic, and non-geographic. Geographic speciation corresponds to today's usage of the term allopatric speciation, and in 1868, Moritz Wagner was the first to propose the concept of which he used the term ''Separationstheorie''. His idea was later interpreted by Ern

Evolutionary history of plants: none

Molecular evolution: 
th comparative biochemistry, and the use of "fingerprinting" methods such as immune assays, gel electrophoresis and paper chromatography in the 1950s to explore homologous proteins. The field of molecular evolution came into its own in the 1960s and 1970s, following the rise of molecular b

Chronospecies: none

Abiogenesis: 
s the Eoarchean Era (between 3.6 and 4.0 billion years ago), after geological crust started to solidify following the molten Hadean Eon. In May 2017 scientists found possible evidence of early life on land in 3.48-billion-year-old geyserite and other related mineral deposits (often found 

Evolution of human intelligence: 
06), Tautavel Man (- 0.5e+06),  Peking Man (- 0.4e+06), Solo Man (- 0.4e+06), and Peștera cu Oase (- 0.378e+05)  Homo sapiens intelligence  Around 200,000 years ago, ''Homo sapiens'' first appeared in East Africa. It is unclear to what extent these early modern humans had developed languag

Ecological genetics: 
y 20th century. Ford was taught genetics at Oxford University by Julian Huxley, and started research on the genetics of natural populations in 1924. Ford also had a long working relationship with R.A. Fisher. By the time Ford had developed his formal definition of genetic polymorphism,F

Alfred Russel Wallace: 


Evolutionary developmental biology: 
rolled at the molecular level. Charles Darwin noted that having similar embryos implied common ancestry, but little progress was made until the 1970s. Then, recombinant DNA technology at last brought embryology together with molecular genetics. A key early discovery was of homeotic genes 

Fisher's reproductive value: none

History of speciation: 


Sexual selection: 
in his book ''The Blind Watchmaker''.Dawkins, Richard (1986). The Blind Watchmaker. Longman, London. Published in Penguin Books 1988, 1991, and 2006. Chapter 8, Explosions and Spirals. Females that prefer long tailed males tend to have mothers that chose long-tailed fathers. As a result,

Gene duplication: none

Y-chromosomal Adam: 
paternal lineages become extinct.  Estimates of the time when Y-MRCA lived have also shifted as modern knowledge of human ancestry changes. In 2013, the discovery of a previously unknown Y-chromosomal haplogroup was announced, (primary source) which resulted in a slight adjustment of th

Landrace: none

Trait (biological): none

Motoo Kimura: 


Mendelian inheritance: 
nce of genetics  '''Mendelian inheritance''' is a type of biological inheritance that follows the laws originally proposed by Gregor Mendel in 1865 and 1866 and re-discovered in 1900. These laws were initially controversial. When Mendel's theories were integrated with the Boveri–Sutton c

Evolution of the horse: 
nd in the New World when European explorers reached the Americas. When the Spanish colonists brought domestic horses from Europe, beginning in 1493, escaped horses quickly established large feral herds. In the 1760s, the early naturalist Buffon suggested this was an indication of inferi

Evolution of the eye: 
detect motion or to resolve objects, and whether they can discriminate colours. History of research  thumb|The human eye, showing the iris  In 1802, philosopher William Paley called it a miracle of "design". Charles Darwin himself wrote in his ''Origin of Species'', that the evolution o

Inclusive fitness: 


Population: 


Kin selection: 
s (the same "stock") would allow the evolution of a trait that confers the benefit but destroys an individual at the same time. R.A. Fisher in 1930 and J.B.S. Haldane in 1932 set out the mathematics of kin selection, with Haldane famously joking that he would willingly die for two brothe

Population dynamics: 
ly 19th century, who refined and adjusted the Malthusian demographic model.  A more general model formulation was proposed by F.J. Richards in 1959, further expanded by Simon Hopkins, in which the models of Gompertz, Verhulst and also Ludwig von Bertalanffy are covered as special cases 

Transposon: 
e. Transposition often results in duplication of the same genetic material. Barbara McClintock's discovery of them earned her a Nobel Prize in 1983.  Transposable elements make up a large fraction of the genome and are responsible for much of the mass of DNA in a eukaryotic cell. Althou

Mutational meltdown: none

Coefficient of relationship: 
ee of consanguinity (or biological relationship) between two individuals. The term coefficient of relationship was defined by Sewall Wright in 1922, and was derived from his definition of the coefficient of inbreeding of 1921. The measure is most commonly used in genetics and genealogy.

Peppered moth: none

Horizontal gene transfer: 
livery can be seen as an artificial horizontal gene transfer, and is a form of genetic engineering.History  Griffith's experiment, reported in 1928 by Frederick Griffith, was the first experiment suggesting that bacteria are capable of transferring genetic information through a process k

Sergei Chetverikov: 


Systematics: none

Vertebrate paleontology: 
od (225 to 190 Ma) around the same time as the dinosaurs, which also sprouted from the reptilian line.  Birds first diverged from dinosaurs between 100 Ma and 60 Ma.Hackett, S.J., Kimball, R.T., Reddy, S., Bowie, R.C.K., Braun, E.L., Braun, M.J., Chojnowski, J.L., Cox, W.A., Han, K-L., Harsh

Genotype-environment interaction: 
ugh to confirm gene–environment interactions. History of the definition  The history of defining gene–environment interaction dates back to the 1930s and remains a topic of debate today. The first instance of debate occurred between Ronald Fisher and Lancelot Hogben. Galat h Fisher sought 

Evolutionary game theory: 
s in biology. It defines a framework of contests, strategies, and analytics into which Darwinian competition can be modelled. It originated in 1973 with John Maynard Smith and George R. Price's formalisation of contests, analysed as strategies, and the mathematical criteria that can be u

Allele: none

George C. Williams (biologist): 
lliams in this area, along with W. D. Hamilton, John Maynard Smith and others led to the development of a gene-centric view of evolution in the 1960s.

Maladaptation: none

Social effects of evolutionary theory: none

Life-history theory: 
istory of field  Life history theory is seen as a branch of evolutionary ecology and is used in a variety of different fields. Beginning in the 1950s, mathematical analysis became an important aspect of research regarding LHT.Roff, D. (2002). ''Life History Evolution''. Sunderland, Mass.:

Recapitulation theory: 
ages resembling or representing successive adult stages in the evolution of the animal's remote ancestors (phylogeny). It was formulated in the 1820s by  Étienne Serres  based on the work of Johann Friedrich Meckel, after whom it is also known as '''Meckel–Serres law'''.  Since embryos als

Evidence of common descent: none

Co-evolution: 
 flowering plants and insects in ''On the Origin of Species'' (1859). The term coevolution was coined by Paul R. Ehrlich and Peter H. Raven in 1964. The theoretical underpinnings of coevolution are now well-developed, and demonstrate that coevolution can play an important role in drivin

Paleobotany: 
of phytoliths in relative dating and in paleoethnobotany.  The emergence of paleobotany as a scientific discipline can be seen in the early 19th century, especially in the works of the German palaeontologist Ernst Friedrich von Schlotheim, the Czech (Bohemian) nobleman and scholar Kaspar Mar

Genetic drift: 
ics, held the view that genetic drift plays at the most a minor role in evolution, and this remained the dominant view for several decades. In 1968, population geneticist Motoo Kimura rekindled the debate with his neutral theory of molecular evolution, which claims that most instances w

Recent African origin of modern humans: 
multiple admixture between ''H. sapiens'' and archaic humans in Europe and Asia. ''H. sapiens'' most likely developed in the Horn of Africa between 300,000 and 200,000 years ago. The "recent African origin" model proposes that all modern non-African populations are substantially descended f

Evolutionary radiation: none

Speciation: 
ciation''' is the evolutionary process by which populations evolve to become distinct species. The biologist Orator F. Cook coined the term in 1906 for cladogenesis, the splitting of lineages, as opposed to anagenesis, phyletic evolution within lineages. Charles Darwin was the first to d

Error threshold (evolution): none

Population genetics: 
 and genetic drift.  The next key step was the work of the British biologist and statistician Ronald Fisher. In a series of papers starting in 1918 and culminating in his 1930 book ''The Genetical Theory of Natural Selection'', Fisher showed that the continuous variation measured by the 

Genetic recombination: none

Darwin (unit): 


Dog breeding: 
 of neoteny as a means of distinguishing dogs from wolves is baseless.  With the development of breed clubs and kennel clubs during the mid-19th century, dog breeding became more rigorous and many breeds were developed during this time. Dog breeding became more systemic to preserve unique mu

Evolvability: none

Evolution: 
ory of evolutionary thought  thumb|upright|Lucretius thumb|upright|Alfred Russel Wallace thumb|upright|Thomas Robert Malthus  thumb|upright|In 1842, Charles Darwin penned his first sketch of ''On the Origin of Species''.   Classical times  The proposal that one type of organism could de

Evolutionary capacitance: none

Evolutionary medicine: 
atic agents. p. 510 George C. Williams was the first to apply evolutionary theory to health in the context of senescence.  abstract Also in the 1950s, John Bowlby approached the problem of disturbed child development from an evolutionary perspective upon attachment.  An important theoreti

Fitness (biology): 
icial Selection''. The next further advance was the introduction of the concept of inclusive fitness by the British biologist W.D. Hamilton in 1964 in his paper on ''The Genetical Evolution of Social Behaviour''.

Gradualism: none

Micropaleontology: none

Ernst Mayr: 
to be confused with Ernst Mayr (computer scientist), Ernst Mayer, Ernst Meyer, Ernest Mayer or Ernest May.''  '''Ernst Walter Mayr'''  (; 5 July 1904 – 3 February 2005) was one of the 20th century's leading evolutionary biologists. He was also a renowned taxonomist, tropical explorer, orni

Mass extinctions: none

Paleozoology: none

Susumu Ohno: none

