Interstitial region: none

Consensus sequence: none

Angelman syndrome: 
s and females are affected with equal frequency. It is named after a British pediatrician, Harry Angelman, who first described the syndrome in 1965. An older term, "happy puppet syndrome", is generally considered pejorative. Prader–Willi syndrome is a separate condition, caused by a sim

Palindrome: 
urned and incinerated", (פרשנו רעבתן שבדבש נתבער ונשרף; ''perashnu: ra`avtan shebad'vash nitba`er venisraf''), credited to Abraham ibn Ezra in 1924, and referring to the halachic question as to whether a fly landing in honey makes the honey ''treif'' (non-kosher).  thumb|Palindrome on t

Fanconi anemia: 
rom people with FA are sensitive to drugs that treat cancer by DNA crosslinking, such as mitomycin C. The typical age of death was 30 years in 2000.  FA occurs in about one per 130,000 births, with a higher frequency in Ashkenazi Jews in Israel and Afrikaners in South Africa. The diseas

Monohybrid cross: none

Sex-influenced trait: 
conditions in females is the square of that in males: for example, if 1 in 20 males in a human population are red-green color blind, then 1 in 400 females in the population are expected to be color-blind (1/20)*(1/20).  The inheritance patterns are different in animals which use differe

Genomic sequence: none

Parthenogenesis: none

Electroporation: 
hybridomas) are formed by fusing specific antibody-producing B lymphocytes with a myeloma (B lymphocyte cancer) cell line.History It was in the 1960s that there were publications reporting that by applying an external electric field, a large membrane potential at the two pole of a cell can

Metaphase plate: none

Extranuclear inheritance: none

Nonsense suppressor: 
ed to the same degree. Genes with different or multiple stop codons will be unaffected.  SUP35, a nonsense suppressor identified by Wickner in 1994, is a prion protein.  In synthetic biology, artificial suppressor elongator tRNAs are used to incorporate unnatural amino acids at nonsense

Germ-line theory: none

Idiogram: 
ion about past evolutionary events. History of karyotype studies  Chromosomes were first observed in plant cells by Carl Wilhelm von Nägeli in 1842. Their behavior in animal (salamander) cells was described by Walther Flemming, the discoverer of mitosis, in 1882. The name was coined by 

Oncogenes: 
cogenes. Usually multiple oncogenes, along with mutated apoptotic or tumor suppressor genes will all act in concert to cause cancer.  Since the 1970s, dozens of oncogenes have been identified in human cancer. Many cancer drugs target the proteins encoded by oncogenes.The Nobel Prize in Ph

Neutral petite: 
 would more rapidly produce this mutation.  Schatz identified a region of the yeast’s nuclear DNA that was associated with the mitochondria in 1964. Later, it was discovered that mutants without the ρ-factor had no mitochondrial DNA (called ρ0 isolates), or that they possessed a differe

Selective medium: none

Lysogen: 
ogeny, examples of which include phage-encoded tRNA and virulence genes.History Theories about Lysogeny dominated the field of microbiology between 1920-29. However, Lysogenic Bacterium were first brought to light by studies conducted in 1921 that explored the mechanisms between phages and b

Genetic load: none

Nucleoside: none

Cell line: none

Identity by type: none

Southern blotting: none

Homeo-domain: 


Sex-limited trait: 
ch very closely) their optimal phenotypes. A brief history  The idea of sex-limited genes was initially developed by Charles Darwin himself in 1871 in his book ''The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex.'' He did not distinguish between sex-limited, sex-linked, and sex-influen

Inosine: none

Molecular biology: 
 the interactions between DNA, RNA, proteins and their biosynthesis, as well as the regulation of these interactions. Writing in ''Nature'' in 1961, William Astbury described molecular biology as:History  While molecular biology was established in the 1930s, the term was coined by Warre

Aneuploid cell: none

Transcriptome: none

Dyad symmetry: none

Comparative genomics: 
e genomes of two organisms became available (that is, the genomes of the bacteria ''Haemophilus influenzae'' and ''Mycoplasma genitalium'') in 1995, comparative genomics is now a standard component of the analysis of every new genome sequence. With the explosion in the number of genome 

Heteroduplex: none

Angiosperm: 
ermae''' or '''Magnoliophyta''', are the most diverse group of land plants, with 64 orders, 416 families, approximately 13,000 known genera and 300,000 known species. Like gymnosperms, angiosperms are seed-producing plants. However, they are distinguished from gymnosperms by characteris

Clone (genetics): none

Rho factor: 
 where it unwinds the hybrid duplex structure. RNA polymerase pauses at the termination sequence, which is because there is a specific site around 100 nt away from the Rho binding site called the Rho-sensitive pause site. So, even though the RNA polymerase is about 40 nt per second faster t

Human mitochondrial genetics: none

Spore: 
hrough the pairing of two nuclei within the plasmodium, which develops from the amoebula."Myxozoa". Tree of Life web project. Ivan Fiala 10 July 2008. Web. 14 Jan. 2014.  Spores are usually haploid and unicellular and are produced by meiosis in the sporangium of a diploid sporophyte. Unde

Mutation frequency: none

Rna splicing: none

Karyokinesis: none

Morphogenesis: 
tterns was observed. The fuller understanding of the mechanisms involved in actual organisms required the discovery of the structure of DNA in 1953, and the development of molecular biology and biochemistry.

Overdominance: none

Gynandromorph: none

Forensics: 
Xi Yuan Lu'' (translated as ''Washing Away of Wrongs''A Brief Background of Forensic Science ), written in China by Song Ci (宋慈, 1186–1249) in 1248, who was a director of justice, jail and supervision,Song, Ci, and Brian E. McKnight. ''The washing away of wrongs: forensic medicine in th

Gel electrophoresis: 
nables clean and predictable separation of native proteins (Kastenholz)  A 1959 book on electrophoresis by Milan Bier cites references from the 1800s. However, Oliver Smithies made significant contributions. Bier states: "The method of Smithies ... is finding wide application because of i

Suicide gene: none

Gametophyte: none

Congenital: 
affected about 96 million people as of 2015. In the United States they occur in about 3% of newborns. They resulted in about 628,000 deaths in 2015 down from 751,000 in 1990. The types with the greatest numbers of deaths are congenital heart disease (303,000), followed by neural tube def

Melanoma: 
e cells are dividing, and whether or not the overlying skin has broken down.  Melanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. Globally, in 2012, it newly occurred in 232,000 people. In 2015 there were 3.1 million with active disease which resulted in 59,800 deaths. Australia and New

Cosmids: none

Confidence limits: 
ill tend to produce a broader confidence interval.  Confidence intervals were introduced to statistics by Jerzy Neyman in a paper published in 1937.

Lagging strand: none

Sanger sequence: 
ion of chain-terminating dideoxynucleotides by DNA polymerase during in vitro DNA replication. Developed by Frederick Sanger and colleagues in 1977, it was the most widely used sequencing method for approximately 40 years. More recently, higher volume Sanger sequencing has been replaced

Sex-determination system: none

Lysogenic: none

Cdna library: none

Blastoderm: none

Sex chromosome: 
 differ from one another and thereby determine sex.  Nettie Stevens and Edmund Beecher Wilson both independently discovered sex chromosomes in 1905. However, Stevens is credited for discovering them earlier than Wilson.

Muller's morphs: none

Leader sequence (mRNA): none

Negative control: none

Organelle: 
ubstructures is obvious, as from even early works, authors of respective textbooks rarely elaborate on the distinction between the two.  In the 1830s, Félix Dujardin refuted Ehrenberg theory which said that microorganisms have the same organs of multicellular animals, only minor.  Credite

Germinal mutation: none

Deletion map: none

Ovum: 
n and preformationism as well as a bold assumption that mammals also reproduced via eggs. Karl Ernst von Baer discovered the mammalian ovum in 1827. The fusion of spermatozoa with ova (of a starfish) was observed by Oskar Hertwig in 1876.

Homozygous gene pair: none

Deletion mapping: none

Spermatid: 
 subsequently replaced with protamines during spermatid elongation.  The resultant tightly packed chromatin is transcriptionally inactive.  In 2016 scientists at Nanjing Medical University claimed they had produced cells resembling mouse spermatids artificially from stem cells.  They inj

Fertility factor (bacteria): none

Genome: none

Mating type: none

Fragile X syndrome: 
d problems, aggressive behavior, or ADHD. Fragile X syndrome is estimated to occur in 1.4 in 10,000 males and 0.9 in 10,000 females.History In 1943, James Purdon Martin and Julia Bell described a pedigree of X-linked mental disability, without considering the macroorchidism (larger test

Acentric chromosome: none

Gene mapping: none

Glutamine: none

Ribonucleic acid: none

Template strand: 
 realized as a protein was first hypothesized by François Jacob and Jacques Monod. Severo Ochoa won a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1959 for developing a process for synthesizing RNA ''in vitro'' with polynucleotide phosphorylase, which was useful for cracking the genetic code

Supercoiling: none

Zinc finger: 
y of differing protein structures. ''Xenopus laevis'' TFIIIA was originally demonstrated to contain zinc and require the metal for function in 1983, the first such reported zinc requirement for a gene regulatory protein. It often appears as a metal-binding domain in multi-domain protein

Haplodiploidy: none

Haplotype: none

Sanger sequencing: 
ion of chain-terminating dideoxynucleotides by DNA polymerase during in vitro DNA replication. Developed by Frederick Sanger and colleagues in 1977, it was the most widely used sequencing method for approximately 40 years. More recently, higher volume Sanger sequencing has been replaced

Homothallic: 
o form a zygote, and self-fertilization or selfing (in homothallic fungi) in which both nuclei are derived from the same individual.  Among the 250 known species of aspergilli, about 36% have an identified sexual state.  Among those ''Aspergillus'' species for which a sexual cycle has be

Heterogametic sex: none

Hybrid DNA: none

Transduction (genetics): none

Polypeptide: none

Endosperm: none

Pseudoautosomal region: none

Zinc-finger protein: 
y of differing protein structures. ''Xenopus laevis'' TFIIIA was originally demonstrated to contain zinc and require the metal for function in 1983, the first such reported zinc requirement for a gene regulatory protein. It often appears as a metal-binding domain in multi-domain protein

P53: 
gene. (''Italics'' are used to denote the ''TP53'' gene name and distinguish it from the protein it encodes.)  The name '''p53''' was given in 1979 describing the apparent molecular mass; SDS-PAGE analysis indicates that it is a 53-kilodalton (kDa) protein. However, the actual mass of th

Transfection: none

Exogenous DNA: none

Myeloma: none

Species: 
r (snakes, scorpions and certain biting ants). John Ray, an English naturalist, was the first to attempt a biological definition of species in 1686, as follows:  upright|thumb|Carl Linnaeus created the binomial system for naming species.  In the 18th century, the Swedish scientist Carl 

