Guttural consonant: none

Meaning (linguistic): none

Function word: 
ontrast, grammars describe the use of function words in detail, but treat lexical words in general terms only.  Since it was first proposed in 1952 by C. C. Fries, this distinguishing of function/structure words from content/lexical words has been highly influential in the grammar used i

Grammatical case: none

Syllable: 
nd ''nite''.  Syllabic writing began several hundred years before the first letters. The earliest recorded syllables are on tablets written around 2800 BC in the Sumerian city of Ur. This shift from pictograms to syllables has been called "the most important advance in the history of writing".

Derivation (linguistics): none

Copula (linguistics): none

Tone (linguistics): none

Will (verb): 
 duty to."Chadwick C. Busk, "Using ''Shall'' or ''Will'' to Create Obligations in Business Contracts", ''Michigan Bar Journal'', pp. 50-52, October 2017."Basic Concepts in Drafting Contracts", presented by Vincent R. Martorana to the New York State Bar Association, December 10, 2014 (via Ree

Optimality theory: 
 outputs as their surface realizations.  In linguistics, Optimality Theory has its origin in a talk given by Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky in 1991"Optimality". Proceedings of the talk given at Arizona Phonology Conference, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ. which was later developed in

Semantic class: none

Language families and languages: 
'' within a language family as being ''genetically related''.  According to ''Ethnologue'' the 7,111 living human languages are distributed in 141 different language families.  A "living language" is simply one that is used as the primary form of communication of a group of people. Ther

International Phonetic Alphabet: 
  Occasionally letters or diacritics are added, removed or modified by the International Phonetic Association. As of the most recent change in 2005, there are 107 letters, 52 diacritics and four prosodic marks in the IPA. These are shown in the current IPA chart, also posted below in th

Decipherment: none

Subject–verb–object: none

Syntax: 
at came to be known as "traditional grammar" began with the work of Dionysius Thrax.  For centuries, a framework known as  (first expounded in 1660 by Antoine Arnauld in a book of the same title) dominated work in syntax: as its basic premise the assumption that language is a direct refl

Palatal consonant: none

Circumflex: none

Cognate: none

Abbreviation: 
y done away with the use of periods in abbreviations.  Minimization of punctuation in typewritten material became economically desirable in the 1960s and 1970s for the many users of carbon-film ribbons since a period or comma consumed the same length of non-reusable expensive ribbon as did

Initialism: 
on process known as blending, in which parts of two or more words are combined to form a new word.  Acronyms flourished especially from the 20th century onwards, although the distinction between abbreviation and acronym has been steadily eroded and acronym is commonly used for several types o

List of linguists: none

Standard language: none

Affix: none

Cranberry morpheme: none

Sentence (linguistics): none

Implication (pragmatics): 
not literally expressed. This phenomenon is part of pragmatics, a subdiscipline of linguistics. The philosopher H. P. Grice coined the term in 1975. Grice distinguished ''conversational'' implicatures, which arise because speakers are expected to respect general rules of conversation, a

Articulatory phonetics: none

Phone (phonetics): none

Speech recognition: 
 source-filter model of speech production.   '''1962''' – IBM demonstrated its 16-word "Shoebox" machine's speech recognition capability at the 1962 World's Fair.  '''1969''' – Funding at Bell Labs dried up for several years when, in 1969, the influential John Pierce wrote an open letter 

Slack voice: none

Ideogram: none

Heaps' law: 
stance text of size ''n''. ''K'' and β are free parameters determined empirically. With English text corpora, typically ''K'' is between 10 and 100, and β is between 0.4 and 0.6.  The law is frequently attributed to Harold Stanley Heaps, but was originally discovered by .: "Herdan's law

Verb: none

Animacy: none

Etymologist: 
h the supposed origins of words were creatively imagined to satisfy contemporary requirements; for example, the  Greek poet Pindar (born in approximately 522 BCE) employed inventive etymologies to flatter his patrons. Plutarch employed etymologies insecurely based on fancied resemblances in sounds. I

Inflection: none

Chiasmus: none

Capitonym: none

Truth condition: none

Linguistics: 
f written, signed, or spoken discourse through varying speech communities, genres, and editorial or narrative formats in the mass media. In the 1960s, Jacques Derrida, for instance, further distinguished between speech and writing, by proposing that written language be studied as a lingui

Sociolect: none

Conjunct: none

Participle: none

Adjunct (grammar): none

Ethnologue: 
e publication in print and online that provides statistics and other information on the living languages of the world.  It was first issued in 1951, and is now published annually by SIL International, a U.S.-based, worldwide, Christian non-profit organization. SIL's main purpose is to s

Telicity: none

Supine: none

Auxiliary verb: none

Tongue-twister: none

Past tense: none

Language attrition: none

History of linguistics: 
he structuralist school, based on the work of Ferdinand de Saussure in Europe and Edward Sapir and Leonard Bloomfield in the United States. The 1960s saw the rise of many new fields in linguistics, such as Noam Chomsky's generative grammar, William Labov's sociolinguistics, Michael Hallida

Phonology: 
ho (together with his students Mikołaj Kruszewski and Lev Shcherba) shaped the modern usage of the term ''phoneme'' in a series of lectures in 1876-1877. The word ''phoneme'' had been coined a few years earlier in 1873 by the French linguist A. Dufriche-Desgenettes. In a paper read at t

Translation: 
 Endless Toil", ''The Polish Review'', vol. XXVIII, no. 2, 1983, pp. 84-87.  Because of the laboriousness of the translation process, since the 1940s efforts have been made, with varying degrees of success, to automate translation or to mechanically aid the human translator.W.J. Hutchins, 

Rhetoric: 
ter in question—knows about the topic. For instance, when a magazine claims that ''An MIT professor predicts that the robotic era is coming in 2050,'' the use of big-name "MIT" (a world-renowned American university for the advanced research in mathematics, science, and technology) estab

Anaphora (linguistics): none

Fusional language: none

Breve: none

Pronunciation: none

Instructive case: none

X-bar theory: none

Sociolinguistics: 
' that sociolinguistics studies.  The social aspects of language were in the modern sense first studied by Indian and Japanese linguists in the 1930s, and also by Louis Gauchat in Switzerland in the early 1900s, but none received much attention in the West until much later. The study of t

Linguistics basic topics: 
t Greek study of language  Roman elaborations of Greek study  Medieval philosophical work in Latin  Beginnings of modern linguistics in the 19th century  Behaviorism and mental ''tabula rasa'' hypothesis  Chomsky and functionalism  Generative grammar leads to generative phonology and semantic

Cedilla: none

Phonetics: 
 Sanskrit grammarians. The Hindu scholar Pāṇini is among the most well known of these early investigators, whose four-part grammar, written around 350 BCE, is influential in modern linguistics and still represents "the most complete generative grammar of any language yet written". His grammar 

Defective verb: none

Essive case: none

Pragmatics: none

Grimm's law: 
e discipline of historical linguistics. The correspondence between Latin ''p'' and Germanic ''f'' was first noted by Friedrich von Schlegel in 1806. In 1818, Rasmus Rask extended the correspondences to other Indo-European languages such as Sanskrit and Greek, and to the full range of co

Word: none

Language acquisition: 
ionist theory, and usage-based language acquisition.  Skinner's behaviourist idea was strongly attacked by Noam Chomsky in a review article in 1959, calling it "largely mythology" and a "serious delusion." Arguments against Skinner's idea of language acquisition through operant conditio

Natural language processing: 
tural language understanding, and natural language generation.History  The history of natural language processing(NLP) generally started in the 1950s, although work can be found from earlier periods. In 1950, Alan Turing published an article titled "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" w

Unsolved problems in linguistics: none

Comparative: none

Retroflex consonant: none

Sampa: none

Endangered language: none

Tonal language: none

Grammatical gender: none

Declension: none

Verb phrase: none

Grammatical particle: none

Principles of interpretation: none

Translative case: none

Open class word: 
 into lexical categories is found from the earliest moments in the history of linguistics.  India In the ''Nirukta'', written in the 5th or 6th century BC, the Sanskrit grammarian Yāska defined four main categories of words:   नाम ''nāma'' – noun (including adjective)  आख्यात ''ākhyāta'' – ver

Double acute accent: 
 ''á'' and ''é'' were marked, since they are different in quality as well as length. Later ''í'', ''ó'', ''ú'' were marked as well.  In the 18th century, before Hungarian orthography became fixed, ''u'' and ''o'' with umlaut + acute (ǘ, ö́) were used in some printed documents. 19th century t

Phoneme: none

Grammar: 
on stranding occurs widely in Germanic languages, has a long history in English and is generally considered standard usage. John Dryden (13 April 1668 – January 1688) objected to it (without explanation), leading other English speakers to avoid the construction and discourage its use.Rodney

Diacritic: none

Rounded vowel: none

Glottochronology: none

Onomasiology: none

The sound pattern of English: none

Dative case: none

Grammatical number: none

Augment (Bantu languages): none

Formal language: none

Suppletion: none

Philosophy of language: 
logical positivists, and Quine.  A foundational work was Ferdinand de Saussure's ''Cours de linguistique générale'', published posthumously in 1916.  Philosophy of Language may investigate the relations between language, language users, and the world. The scope of Philosophy of Language

