N terminus: none

Restriction fragments: none

Nuclear run-on: none

Messenger RNA: 
nod and François Jacob, and subsequently discovered by Jacob, Sydney Brenner and Matthew Meselson at the California Institute of Technology in 1961.  It should not be confused with mitochondrial DNA.

Chromosome: 
re among the first scientists who first recognized the structures now familiar as chromosomes.  In a series of experiments beginning in the mid-1880s, Theodor Boveri gave the definitive demonstration that chromosomes are the vectors of heredity; his two principles or postulates were the '

Human immunodeficiency virus: 
vely more susceptible to opportunistic infections, leading to the development of AIDS.History  Discovery AIDS was first clinically observed in 1981 in the United States. The initial cases were a cluster of injection drug users and gay men with no known cause of impaired immunity who show

Operon: 
(which includes organelles like plastids that are derived from bacteria), but since the discovery of the first operons in eukaryotes in the early 1990s, more evidence has arisen to suggest they are more common than previously assumed. In general, expression of prokaryotic operons leads to t

Diploid: none

Zinc finger: 
y of differing protein structures. ''Xenopus laevis'' TFIIIA was originally demonstrated to contain zinc and require the metal for function in 1983, the first such reported zinc requirement for a gene regulatory protein. It often appears as a metal-binding domain in multi-domain protein

Taq polymerase: 
ostable DNA polymerase I named after the thermophilic bacterium ''Thermus aquaticus'' from which it was originally isolated by Chien et al. in 1976.  Its name is often abbreviated to '''''Taq'' Pol''' or simply '''''Taq'''''. It is frequently used in the polymerase chain reaction (PCR),

Amplicon: none

Ataxia-telangiectasia: 
ch is involved in the recognition and repair of damaged DNA. The prevalence of A–T is estimated to be as high as 1 in 40,000 to as low as 1 in 300,000 people.

Cosmid: 
d as a cloning vector in genetic engineering. Cosmids can be used to build genomic libraries. They were first described by Collins and Hohn in 1978. Cosmids can contain 37 to 52 (normally 45) kb of DNA, limits based on the normal bacteriophage packaging size. They can replicate as plasm

Base pair: none

Polymorphism (biology): none

Fluorescence in situ hybridization: 
ly those parts of a nucleic acid sequence with a high degree of sequence complementarity. It was developed by biomedical researchers in the early 1980s to detect and localize the presence or absence of specific DNA sequences on chromosomes. Fluorescence microscopy can be used to find out whe

Fusion protein: none

Melanoma: 
e cells are dividing, and whether or not the overlying skin has broken down.  Melanoma is the most dangerous type of skin cancer. Globally, in 2012, it newly occurred in 232,000 people. In 2015 there were 3.1 million with active disease which resulted in 59,800 deaths. Australia and New

Canonical sequence: none

Sticky and blunt ends: none

Complementarity (molecular biology): none

Carboxyl terminus: none

Highly conserved sequence: 
athematics.History  The discovery of the role of DNA in heredity, and observations by Frederick Sanger of variation between animal insulins in 1949, prompted early molecular biologists to study taxonomy from a molecular perspective. Studies in the 1960s used DNA hybridization and protei

Histone: 
id cells are duplicated and condensed during mitosis, the result is about 120 micrometers of chromosomes. History  Histones were discovered in 1884 by Albrecht Kossel. The word "histone" dates from the late 19th century and is derived from the German word ''"Histon"'', a word itself of u

Phosphatase, alkaline: none

Kinase: 
.History and classification  The first protein to be recognized as catalyzing the phosphorylation of another protein using ATP was observed in 1954 by Gene Kennedy at which time he described a liver enzyme that catalyzed the phosphorylation of casein. In 1956, Edmond H. Fischer and Edwin

Polyacrylamide gel: none

Epitope: none

Down syndrome: 
 care.  Down syndrome is one of the most common chromosome abnormalities in humans. It occurs in about one per 1,000 babies born each year. In 2015, Down syndrome was present in 5.4 million individuals globally and resulted in 27,000 deaths, down from 43,000 deaths in 1990. It is named 

Animal model: 
pig in a calorimeter to prove that respiration was a form of combustion, and Louis Pasteur's demonstration of the germ theory of disease in the 1880s using anthrax in sheep.  Research using animal models has been central to many of the achievements of modern medicine. It has contributed mo

Nested PCR: none

Origin of replication: none

Stem-loop: none

Lipofectin: none

Autosomal dominant: none

Silent mutation: none

Screening (medicine): none

Transcription (genetics): 
 realized as a protein was first hypothesized by François Jacob and Jacques Monod. Severo Ochoa won a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1959 for developing a process for synthesizing RNA ''in vitro'' with polynucleotide phosphorylase, which was useful for cracking the genetic code

Molecular biology: 
 the interactions between DNA, RNA, proteins and their biosynthesis, as well as the regulation of these interactions. Writing in ''Nature'' in 1961, William Astbury described molecular biology as:History  While molecular biology was established in the 1930s, the term was coined by Warre

Immunoprecipitation: none

Helix-loop-helix: none

Electroporation: 
hybridomas) are formed by fusing specific antibody-producing B lymphocytes with a myeloma (B lymphocyte cancer) cell line.History It was in the 1960s that there were publications reporting that by applying an external electric field, a large membrane potential at the two pole of a cell can

Congenital: 
affected about 96 million people as of 2015. In the United States they occur in about 3% of newborns. They resulted in about 628,000 deaths in 2015 down from 751,000 in 1990. The types with the greatest numbers of deaths are congenital heart disease (303,000), followed by neural tube def

Sickle-cell disease: 
ccurs relatively frequently in parts of India, the Arabian Peninsula and among people of African origin living in other parts of the world. In 2015, it resulted in about 114,800 deaths. The condition was first described in the medical literature by the American physician James B. Herric

Chromosomal translocation: 
 full functionality) or '''unbalanced''' (where the exchange of chromosome material is unequal resulting in extra or missing genes).History In 1938, Karl Sax, at the Harvard University Biological Laboratories, published a paper entitled "Chromosome Aberrations Induced by X-rays", which 

Suicide gene: none

Dnase: none

Side chain: none

Retrovirus: none

Leukemia: 
depending on the type of leukemia. In children with acute leukemia who are cancer-free after five years, the cancer is unlikely to return.  In 2015, leukemia was present in 2.3 million people and caused 353,500 deaths. In 2012 it newly developed in 352,000 people. It is the most common 

Restriction enzyme: 
r bacteriophage. The phenomenon was first identified in work done in the laboratories of Salvador Luria, Weigle and Giuseppe Bertani in the early 1950s.  It was found that, for a bacteriophage λ that can grow well in one strain of ''Escherichia coli'', for example ''E. coli'' C, when grown 

Cytosine: 
ck base pairing, it forms three hydrogen bonds with guanine.History Cytosine was discovered and named by Albrecht Kossel and Albert Neumann in 1894 when it was hydrolyzed from calf thymus tissues.A. Kossel and Albert Neumann (1894) "Darstellung und Spaltungsprodukte der Nucleïnsäure (Ade

Gene therapy: 
apeutic delivery of nucleic acid into a patient's cells as a drug to treat disease.  The first attempt at modifying human DNA was performed in 1980 by Martin Cline, but the first successful nuclear gene transfer in humans, approved by the National Institutes of Health, was performed in M

Pseudogene: 
ifts), a lack of transcription, or their inability to encode RNA (such as with ribosomal RNA pseudogenes). The term "pseudogene" was coined in 1977 by Jacq ''et al.''  Because pseudogenes were initially thought of as the last stop for genomic material that could be removed from the genom

Exonuclease: none

Upstream and downstream (DNA): none

Stop codon: none

Post-translational regulation: none

Nucleic acid hybridization: none

Western blot: none

Brca2: 
xons, and the cDNA has  10,254 base pairs coding for a protein of 3418 amino acids. History  {| |valign="top"|The BRCA2 gene was discovered in 1994.High-Impact Science: Tracking down the BRCA genes (Part 2) - Cancer Research UK science blog, 2012  The gene was first cloned by scientists

Evolutionary clock: 
r proteins. The benchmarks for determining the mutation rate are often fossil or archaeological dates. The molecular clock was first tested in 1962 on the hemoglobin protein variants of various animals, and is commonly used in molecular evolution to estimate times of speciation or radiat

5' flanking region: none

Leucine zipper: 
'leucine scissors''') is a common three-dimensional structural motif in proteins. They were first described by Landschulz and collaborators in 1988 when they found that an enhancer binding protein had a very characteristic 30-amino acid segment and the display of these amino acid sequenc

Acrylamide gels: none

Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1: none

Start codon: none

Northern blot: 
d to as northern blotting.Trayhurn, P. (1996) Northern Blotting. Pro. Nutrition Soc. 55:583–589.  The northern blot technique was developed in 1977 by James Alwine, David Kemp, and George Stark at Stanford University, with contributions from Gerhard Heinrich.  Northern blotting takes its

Reverse transcriptase: 
ere discovered by Howard Temin at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in Rous sarcoma virions and independently isolated by David Baltimore in 1970 at MIT from two RNA tumour viruses: murine leukemia virus and again Rous sarcoma virus. For their achievements, they shared the 1975 Nobel P

Transposition (genetics): 
e. Transposition often results in duplication of the same genetic material. Barbara McClintock's discovery of them earned her a Nobel Prize in 1983.  Transposable elements make up a large fraction of the genome and are responsible for much of the mass of DNA in a eukaryotic cell. Althou

Golgi apparatus: 
 as the '''Golgi complex''', '''Golgi body''', or simply the '''Golgi''', is an organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1897 by the Italian scientist Camillo Golgi and named after him in 1898.  Part of the endomembrane system in the cytoplasm, the Golgi apparatus p

Gene expression: none

Laser capture microdissection: none

Blotting: none

Amino terminus: none

Alagille syndrome: 
gille syndrome is 1 in every 100,000 live births. It is named after French paediatrician Daniel Alagille, who first described the condition in 1969.

Post-transcriptional regulation: none

Nucleoside: none

Sequence: none

Sequence-tagged site: none

Monoclonal antibody: 
e-causing organism, then a toxin for that organism could be delivered along with the agent of selectivity. He and Élie Metchnikoff received the 1908 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for this work, which led to an effective syphilis treatment by 1910.  In the 1970s, the B-cell cancer

Klenow fragment: 
large protein fragment produced when DNA polymerase I from ''E. coli'' is enzymatically cleaved by the protease subtilisin.  First reported in 1970, it retains the 5' → 3' polymerase activity and the 3’ → 5’ exonuclease activity for removal of precoding nucleotides and proofreading, but

Alkaline lysis: none

Electrophoresis: 
particles (anions) is sometimes called '''anaphoresis'''.  The electrokinetic phenomenon of electrophoresis was observed for the first time in 1807 by Russian professors Peter Ivanovich Strakhov and Ferdinand Frederic Reuss at Moscow State University, who noticed that the application of 

Carcinoma in situ: none

Binding site: none

Nick (DNA): none

Insertion sequence: 
transposable element. Insertion sequences have two major characteristics: they are small relative to other transposable elements (generally around 700 to 2500 bp in length) and only code for proteins implicated in the transposition activity (they are thus different from other transposons, w

Sub-cloning: none

Direct repeat: none

Heterozygous: none

Repetitive DNA: none

Hematopoietic stem cell: 
ells, and natural killer cells. The definition of hematopoietic stem cells has evolved since Hematopoietic stem cells were first discovered in 1961. The hematopoietic tissue contains cells with long-term and short-term regeneration capacities and committed multipotent, oligopotent, and 

M13 phage: none

Junk DNA: 
to have regulatory functions. When there is much non-coding DNA, a large proportion appears to have no biological function, as predicted in the 1960s. Since that time, this non-functional portion has controversially been called "junk DNA".  The international Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (

