Universal language: 
ight of the gradual decline of Latin. Literature in vernacular languages became more prominent with the Renaissance. Over the course of the 18th century, learned works largely ceased to be written in Latin. According to Colton Booth (''Origin and Authority in Seventeenth-Century England'' (1

Symbol: none

Radical translation: none

Marilyn Frye: none

Friedrich Waismann: 
 He is best known for being a member of the Vienna Circle and 

Implicature: 
not literally expressed. This phenomenon is part of pragmatics, a subdiscipline of linguistics. The philosopher H. P. Grice coined the term in 1975. Grice distinguished ''conversational'' implicatures, which arise because speakers are expected to respect general rules of conversation, a

Proper name (philosophy): none

Principle of compositionality: none

James F. Conant: none

Function and Concept: 
stinction between concepts and objects.

Ostensive definition: none

Frege's Puzzle: 
icals. Gottlob Frege (1848–1925) introduced the puzzle at the beginning of his article "Über Sinn und Bedeutung" ("On Sense and Reference") in 1892 in one of the most influential articles in analytic philosophy and philosophy of language.

Jacques Bouveresse: 


Mediated reference theory: none

Meaning (philosophy of language): none

Definition: none

Plato's Problem: none

Enumerative definition: none

Vienna Circle: 
l Empiricism was a group of philosophers and scientists drawn from the natural and social sciences, logic and mathematics who met regularly from 1924 to 1936 at the University of Vienna, chaired by Moritz Schlick.  The Vienna Circle's influence on 20th-century philosophy, especially philos

F. H. Bradley: 
 1924) was a British idealist philosopher. His most important work was ''Appearance and Reality'' (1893).

Applicative Universal Grammar: none

Jonathan Bennett (philosopher): 
0) is a British philosopher of language and metaphysics, and a historian of early modern philosophy.

Gilbert Ryle: 


Empty name: none

Swampman: none

Indeterminacy of translation: none

Linguistics and Philosophy: none

Max Black: 


Social semiotics: none

Semantic externalism: none

Jody Azzouni: none

Indexicality: none

Scalar implicature: none

Pragmatics: none

Psychologism: none

Relevance theory: 
veloped out of his ideas, but has since become a pragmatic framework in its own right. The seminal book, ''Relevance'', was first published in 1986 and revised in 1995.

Analytic-synthetic distinction: none

Language, Truth, and Logic: none

Linguistic turn: 


Willard Van Orman Quine: 
one of the most influential philosophers of the twentieth century.""W. V. Quine, Philosopher Who Analyzed Language and Reality, Dies at 92" From 1930 until his death 70 years later, Quine was continually affiliated with Harvard University in one way or another, first as a student, then as 

William Crathorn: none

Linguistic determinism: none

Inferential role semantics: none

Indeterminacy (philosophy): none

Categorization: none

Cora Diamond: none

Cognitive synonymy: none

Paul Boghossian: none

Hans Kamp: 
ny Willem "Hans" Kamp''' (born 1940) is a Dutch philosopher and linguist, responsible for introducing Discourse Representation Theory (DRT) in 1981.  Kamp received a Ph.D. in Philosophy from UCLA in 1968, and has taught at Cornell University, University of London, University of Texas, A

On Denoting: 


Persuasive definition: none

Indirect self-reference: none

Duns Scotus: 


Ontological commitment: none

List of philosophers of language: none

George Orwell: 


Context principle: none

Artificial intelligence: 
 is able to be self-conscious and is self-aware in interactions with others.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known as an "AI wint

Sebastian Shaumyan: none

The Naturalization of Intentionality: none

Denotation: none

Meaning (linguistics): none

Speech act: none

Use–mention distinction: none

Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus: 
was a soldier during World War I and completed it during a military leave in the summer of 1918.Monk p.154 It was first published in German in 1921 as ''Logisch-Philosophische Abhandlung''. The ''Tractatus'' was influential chiefly amongst the logical positivist philosophers of the Vienn

S. Morris Engel: 


Theory of descriptions: none

Direction of fit: none

Avrum Stroll: 
h-century analytic philosophy.Works by Avrum Stroll philpapers.org. Retrieved March 2011Avrum Stroll  philosophyfaculty.ucsd.edu. Retrieved March 2011

Carl Gustav Hempel: 
on of the deductive-nomological model of scientific explanation, which was considered the "standard model" of scientific explanation during the 1950s and 1960s. He is also known for the raven paradox (also known as "Hempel's paradox").SEP

Sense and reference: 
 of language, the distinction between '''sense and reference''' was an innovation of the German philosopher and mathematician Gottlob Frege in 1892 (in his paper "'''On Sense and Reference'''"; German: "Über Sinn und Bedeutung"), reflecting the two ways he believed a singular term may ha

Claude Lévi-Strauss: 


David Kellogg Lewis: 
id Kellogg Lewis''' (September 28, 1941 – October 14, 2001) was an American philosopher. Lewis taught briefly at UCLA and then at Princeton from 1970 until his death.  He is also closely associated with Australia, whose philosophical community he visited almost annually for more than thirt

Performative contradiction: none

Anaphora (linguistics): none

Adolph Stöhr: none

Ludwig Wittgenstein: 


Family resemblance: 
o attributed the term to the school developed by Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph von Schelling (1775–1854). The next occurrence appeared in a note from 1930, commenting on Spengler's ideas.Wittgenstein L.,(1998) Culture and Value, London:Blackwell, p 14.  Spengler's influence in this and other f

Vagueness: 
Q  The Sorites paradox dates to the fourth century BCE and is attributed to Eubulides of Melitus. It has received a resurgence of attention since 1975, when three papers published in ''Synthese'' effectively conceived the contemporary study of vagueness.  The problem posed by vagueness is 

Saul Kripke: 
hed Professor of Philosophy at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and emeritus professor at Princeton University. Since the 1960s, Kripke has been a central figure in a number of fields related to mathematical logic, philosophy of language, philosophy of mathematics, m

Operational definition: none

Round square copula: none

Descriptivist theory of names: 
sometimes called the Frege–Russell view.Saul Kripke, ''Naming and Necessity''. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1972. p. 27.  In the 1970s, this theory came under attack from causal theorists such as Saul Kripke, Hilary Putnam and others. However, it has seen something of a rev

John Etchemendy: 


Philosophical Investigations: 


Private language argument: 
impossibility in §244-§271. Key passages occur in §256-§271. The argument was central to philosophical discussion in the second half of the 20th century.  In the ''Investigations'' Wittgenstein does not present his arguments in a succinct and linear fashion; instead, he describes particular 

Non-rigid designator: none

Gareth Evans (philosopher): 


Berlin Circle: 


William C. Dowling: 


Concept: none

European Summer School in Logic, Language and Information: 
 The conference is held over two weeks of the European Summer, and offers about 50 courses at introductory and advanced levels. It attracts around 500 participants from all over the world.

Theoretical definition: 
 describing a set of observations. The definition may contain implicit inductions and deductive consequences that are part of the theory.(6 January 2009). Theory and Observation in Science. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. Retrieved 5 December 2016. A theoretical definition of a term

Kit Fine: 


Language-game: none

Contrast theory of meaning: none

Self-reference: none

Word sense: none

Precising definition: none

