Philosophy of biology: 
erested in biology (e.g., Aristotle, Descartes, and even Kant), philosophy of biology only emerged as an independent field of philosophy in the 1960s and 1970s. Philosophers of science then began paying increasing attention to biology, from the rise of Neodarwinism in the 1930s and 1940s t

Mechanism (philosophy): 
ain fact".  In subsequent years, more direct anti-mechanist lines of reasoning were apparently floating around the intellectual atmosphere. In 1960, Hilary Putnam published a paper entitled "Minds and Machines," in which he points out the flaws of a typical anti-mechanist argument.Putna

Philosophy of thermal and statistical physics: none

Gustav Bergmann: none

Rudolf Carnap: 


Multiple discovery: none

Falsifiability: 
" For example, the claim "all swans are white and have always been white" is falsifiable since it is contradicted by this basic statement: "In 1697, during the Dutch explorer Willem de Vlamingh expedition, there were black swans on the shore of the Swan River in Australia", which in thi

Atomism: 


Positivism: 
been a recurrent theme in the history of western thought,. the modern approach was formulated by the philosopher Auguste Comte in the early 19th century. Comte argued that, much as the physical world operates according to gravity and other absolute laws, so does society, and further develope

Philosophical interpretation of classical physics: none

Hans Reichenbach: 
ucation, and of logical empiricism. He founded the ''Gesellschaft für empirische Philosophie'' (Society for Empirical Philosophy) in Berlin in 1928, also known as the “Berlin Circle”. Carl Gustav Hempel, Richard von Mises, David Hilbert and Kurt Grelling all became members of the Berlin

Philosophy of Science Association: 
ociation''' ('''PSA''') is an American academic organization which promotes the study and discussion of the philosophy of science.  Founded in 1933, the PSA engages in activities such as the publishing of periodicals, essays and monographs in the field of the philosophy of science; spon

Sense data: 


Newtonianism: none

Quantum indeterminacy: none

Genidentity: none

Natural selection: 
 selection is a cornerstone of modern biology. The concept, published by Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace in a joint presentation of papers in 1858, was elaborated in Darwin's influential 1859 book ''On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured

Luddite: 
, automation, computerisation, or new technologies in general."Luddite" ''Compact Oxford English Dictionary'' at AskOxford.com. Accessed 22 February 2010. The Luddite movement began in Nottingham in England and culminated in a region-wide rebellion that lasted from 1811 to 1816. Mill and fact

Mario Bunge: none

Deterministic system (philosophy): none

Scientific revolution: 
he late 18th century, influencing the intellectual social movement known as the Enlightenment. While its dates are debated, the publication in 1543 of Nicolaus Copernicus's ''De revolutionibus orbium coelestium'' (''On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres'') is often cited as marking 

Ptolemy: 
,; G. J. Toomer, "Ptolemy (or Claudius Ptolemaeus). " Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography. 2008. Retrieved from Encyclopedia.com. 4 June 2019 cited Greek philosophers, and used Babylonian observations and Babylonian lunar theory.   The 14th-century astronomer Theodore Meliteniotes 

Alison Wylie: none

History of evolutionary thought: 
ntury Jean-Baptiste Lamarck (1744 – 1829) proposed his theory of the transmutation of species, the first fully formed theory of evolution.  In 1858 Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace published a new evolutionary theory, explained in detail in Darwin's ''On the Origin of Species'' (

John Worrall (philosopher): 
s. He is also associated with the Centre for Philosophy of Natural

Émile Meyerson: 
osopher of science. Meyerson was born in Lublin, Poland. He die

Philosophy of artificial intelligence: none

Hossein Nasr: none

Philosophy of space and time: none

Boris Hessen: none

Wesley C. Salmon: 
ion theory" & 4 "Objections to Salmon's mark transmission theory".  Still, his books on scientific explanation itself were landmarks of the 20th century's philosophy of science, and solidified recognition of causality's important roles in scientific explanation, whereas causality itself has 

Popper's experiment: 
xperiment proposed by the philosopher Karl Popper to put to the test different interpretations of quantum mechanics (QM). In fact, as early as 1934, Popper started criticising the increasingly more accepted Copenhagen interpretation, a popular subjectivist interpretation of quantum mech

Supervenience: 
 1844.  Its systematic use in philosophy is considered to have begun in early 20th-century meta-ethics and emergentism. As G.E. Moore wrote in 1922, "if a given thing possesses any kind of intrinsic value in a certain degree, then... anything ''exactly like it'', must, under all circums

Empiricism: 
art of his soul like a sheet of paper ready for writing upon."Diels-Kranz 4.11 translated by   thumb|right|A drawing of Ibn Sina (Avicenna) from 1271  During the Middle Ages Aristotle's theory of ''tabula rasa'' was developed by Islamic philosophers starting with Al Farabi, developing into

Ernest Nagel: none

Wolfgang Stegmüller: none

Uncertainty principle: 
ntum physics does not support the notion of simultaneously well-defined conjugate properties expressed by a single value.  Introduced first in 1927, by the German physicist  Werner Heisenberg, it states that the more precisely the position of some particle is determined, the less precis

Hilary Putnam: 
 stand between the mind and the world.Putnam, H.. ''The Threefold Cord: Mind, Body, and World''. New York: Columbia University Press, 1999. By 2012, however, he rejected this further commitment, in favor of "transactionalism", a view that accepts both that perceptual experiences are wor

Friedrich von Hayek: 


Claus Emmeche: none

A New Model of the Universe: 


Greedy reductionism: none

Pessimistic induction: none

Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling: 


Heroic theory of invention and scientific development: none

Philosophy of computer science: none

Philip Kitcher: 
f biology, the philosophy of mathematics, 

Antiscience: 
ld.  Hobbes' stance is sometimes regarded as an antiscience position: In his ''Six Lessons to the Professors of Mathematics,''...[published in 1656, Hobbes] distinguished 'demonstrable' fields, as 'those the construction of the subject whereof is in the power of the artist himself,' fro

Scientific theory: none

Game theory: 
uous mappings into compact convex sets, which became a standard method in game theory and mathematical economics. His paper was followed by the 1944 book ''Theory of Games and Economic Behavior'', co-written with Oskar Morgenstern, which considered cooperative games of several players. Th

Max Bense: none

Friedrich Waismann: 
 He is best known for being a member of the Vienna Circle and 

Inductive reasoning: 
re are many inductive arguments that do not have that form.History Ancient philosophy For a move from particular to universal, Aristotle in the 300s BCE used the Greek word ''epagogé'', which Cicero translated into the Latin word ''inductio''.Stefano Gattei, ''Karl Popper's Philosophy of Sci

Time: 
 year.Van Stone, Mark. "The Maya Long Count Calendar: An Introduction." Archaeoastronomy 24.(2011): 8–11. Academic Search Complete. Web. 20 February 2016.  The reforms of Julius Caesar in 45 BC put the Roman world on a solar calendar. This Julian calendar was faulty in that its intercalation 

Philosophy of physics: 
nion—the mark of distinction between a mere artisan or specialist and a real seeker after truth." Einstein. letter to Robert A. Thornton, 7 December 1944. ''EA'' 61–574.  Elsewhere:  "How does it happen that a properly endowed natural scientist comes to concern himself with epistemology? Is t

Internalism and externalism: none

Geoffrey Hellman: 
his B.A. (1965) and Ph.D. (1972) degrees in philosophy from Harvard University. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007.

Decision theory: none

Joseph Henry Woodger: 


Henry Moyes: none

Causality: none

C. D. Broad: 


Niels Bohr: 


Uniformitarianism: 
 Earth''. Hutton's work was later refined by scientist John Playfair and popularised by geologist Charles Lyell's ''Principles of Geology'' in 1830. Today, Earth's history is considered to have been a slow, gradual process, punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events.History  1

Perception: 
ely seems mostly effortless because this processing happens outside conscious awareness.   Since the rise of experimental psychology in the 19th century, psychology's understanding of perception has progressed by combining a variety of techniques. Psychophysics quantitatively describes the r

Information ethics: 
the internet, media, journalism, management information systems, and business.  Evidence of scholarly work on this subject can be traced to the 1980s, when an article authored by Barbara J. Kostrewski and Charles Oppenheim and published in the ''Journal of Information Science'', discussed

Ernst W. Mayr: 
to be confused with Ernst Mayr (computer scientist), Ernst Mayer, Ernst Meyer, Ernest Mayer or Ernest May.''  '''Ernst Walter Mayr'''  (; 5 July 1904 – 3 February 2005) was one of the 20th century's leading evolutionary biologists. He was also a renowned taxonomist, tropical explorer, orni

Determinism: 
iorism: The Philosophy & The Science''.  Western tradition In the West, some elements of determinism have been expressed in Greece from the 6th century BC by the Presocratics HeraclitusStobaeus ''Eclogae'' I 5 (Heraclitus)  and Leucippus.Stobaeus ''Eclogae'' I 4 (Leucippus) The first full-fled

David Stenhouse: 


Fatalism: none

Philosophy of mathematics: 
an open exploration of the fundamental axioms of mathematics, the axiomatic approach having been taken for granted since the time of Euclid around 300 BCE as the natural basis for mathematics. Notions of axiom, proposition and proof, as well as the notion of a proposition being true of a mathe

Philosophy of economics: none

Philosophy of information: 
work), William Ross Ashby, Claude Shannon, Warren Weaver, and many other scientists working on computing and information theory back in the early 1950s. See the main article on Cybernetics.  Some important work on information and communication was done by Gregory Bateson and his colleagues.

Quantity: none

Neuroethics: 
ommunications of ethicists and philosophers.  According to Racine (2010), the term was coined by the Harvard physician Anneliese A. Pontius in 1973 in a paper entitled "Neuro-ethics of 'walking' in the newborn" for the ''Perceptual and Motor Skills''. The author reproposed the term in 19

Conservation biology: 
ures have followed rules, rituals, and organized practice with respect to communal natural resource management.  The Mauryan emperor Ashoka around 250 B.C. issued edicts restricting the slaughter of animals and certain kinds of birds, as well as opened veterinary clinics.  Conservation ethi

Artificial intelligence: 
 is able to be self-conscious and is self-aware in interactions with others.  Artificial intelligence was founded as an academic discipline in 1956, and in the years since has experienced several waves of optimism, followed by disappointment and the loss of funding (known as an "AI wint

Relationship between religion and science: 
ns with other aspects of society and culture occurred. The term ''scientist'' was first coined by the naturalist-theologian William Whewell in 1834 and it was applied to those who sought knowledge and understanding of nature.The ''Oxford English Dictionary'' dates the origin of the word 

Species: 
r (snakes, scorpions and certain biting ants). John Ray, an English naturalist, was the first to attempt a biological definition of species in 1686, as follows:  upright|thumb|Carl Linnaeus created the binomial system for naming species.  In the 18th century, the Swedish scientist Carl 

Spacetime: 
 the universe (its spatial expression in terms of coordinates, distances, and directions) was independent of one-dimensional time. However, in 1905, Albert Einstein based his seminal work on special relativity on two postulates: (1) The laws of physics are invariant (i.e., identical) in

Stephen Toulmin: 


The Value of Science: 


Mauricio Suarez: 
strophysics from the University of Edinburgh (1991), and his MSc and PhD in philosophy of science from the London School of Economics (1992 and 1997 respectively). He currently holds the Chair (Cátedra) in Logic and Philosophy of Science at Complutense University of Madrid.  His previous 

Empirical research: none

Intentionality: none

Werner Heisenberg: 


Abductive reasoning: 
best explanation''', although not all uses of the terms ''abduction'' and ''inference to the best explanation'' are exactly equivalent.  In the 1990s, as computing power grew, the fields of law,See, e.g. ''Analysis of Evidence, 2d ed.'' by Terence Anderson (Cambridge University Press, 200

Theory: 
 a Greek term for ''doing'', which is opposed to theory.David J Pfeiffer. ''Scientific Theory vs Law''. Science Journal (on medium.com). 30 January 2017 A "classical example" of the distinction between "theoretical" and "practical" uses the discipline of medicine: medical theory involves tryi

Bernard d'Espagnat: 


Construct (philosophy of science): none

Inductivism: 


Explanatory power: none

Jordi Pigem: none

Karl Popper: 


Confirmation holism: none

David Hull: 


Norman Swartz: 
hor of multiple books and multiple articles on the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy. He earned a B.A. in physics from Harvard University in 1961, an M.A. in history and philosophy of science from Indiana University in 1965 and a Ph.D. in history of philosophy of science in 1971 also 

Michel Bitbol: none

Philosophy of psychology: none

Quantum logic: none

