John Rawls: 
tical philosopher in the liberal tradition. Rawls received both the Schock Prize for Logic and Philosophy and the National Humanities Medal in 1999, the latter presented by President Bill Clinton, in recognition of how Rawls's work "helped a whole generation of learned Americans revive 

Basic norm: none

Carl Schmitt: 


Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.: 
 Jr.''' (March 8, 1841 – March 6, 1935) was an American jurist who served as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1902 to 1932, and as Acting Chief Justice of the United States in January–February 1930. Noted for his long service, concise and pithy opinions, 

Theodor Sternberg: none

Eye for an eye: none

Dualism (law): none

Arthur Linton Corbin: none

Monopoly on violence: none

Carl Joachim Friedrich: none

Strict constructionism: 
undation for Economic Education.  The term began to be used by conservative and moderate Republican presidents beginning with Richard Nixon in 1968 when he was running for election. His pledge was to appoint justices that interpret the law and reinstate "law and order" to the judiciary. 

Imperium: none

Political jurisprudence: 
politics than by unbiased judgment. According to Professor Martin Shapiro of University of California, Berkeley, who first noted the theory in 1964: "The core of  political jurisprudence is a vision of courts as political agencies and judges as political actors." Legal decisions are no 

Geojurisprudence: 
s" (Manfred Langhans-Ratzeburg - ''Begriff und Aufgaben der Geographischen Rechtswissenshaft (Geojurisprudenz)'' published by Kurt Vowinkel in 1928 as a companion volume to Karl Haushofer's ''Zeitschrift für Geopolitik'' (ZfG).  Haushofer opened the topic in his essay "Geopolitik und Geo

Tony Honoré: 
and Roman law.John Gardner ''Tony Honoré as 

Law and Gospel: none

Interpretivism (legal): none

Legal humanists: 
ch arose in Italy during the Renaissance with the works of Lorenzo Valla and Andrea Alciato as a reaction against the Commentators.  In the 16th century, the movement  reached France (Bourges, where Alciato taught), where it became very influential. They had a general disdain for the Middle 

Law of Christ: none

American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy: 


Interregnum: 
e post" electoral systems, this period is usually very brief, except in the rare occurrence of a hung parliament as occurred both in the UK in 2017 and in Australia in 2010.  In parliamentary interregnums, the previous government usually stands as a caretaker government until the new gov

Critical race theory: 
e as they relate to  categorizations of race, law, and power. It began as a theoretical movement within American law schools in the mid- to late 1980s as a reworking of critical legal studies on race issues"Critical Race Theory thus represents an attempt to inhabit and expand the space betw

New legal realism: 
tz, Elizabeth (2010) "Toward a New Legal Empiricism: Empirical Legal Studies and New Legal Realism" Annual Review of Law and Social Science December 2010, Vol. 6, No. 1: 555-579Dagan, Hanoch (2013) Reconstructing American Legal Realism & Rethinking Private Law Theory Oxford: Oxford University

Monarchomachs: 
d of the 16th century, known in particular for having theoretically justified tyrannicide. The term was originally a pejorative word coined in 1600 by the Scottish royalist and Catholic William Barclay (1548–1608) from the Greek μόναρχος (''monarchos''  "monarch, sole ruler") and μάχομαι

Earth jurisprudence: 
of developing this jurisprudence (by then provisionally referred to as ‘Earth jurisprudence’) was discussed at meeting attended by Berry in April 2001, organised by the Gaia Foundation in London at the Airlie Conference Center outside Washington. A group of people involved in the law and w

Charles de Secondat, baron de Montesquieu: 
''Charles-Louis de Secondat, Baron de La Brède et de Montesquieu''' (;"Montesquieu". ''Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary''. ; 18 January 1689 – 10 February 1755), generally referred to as simply '''Montesquieu''', was a French judge, man of letters, and political philosopher.  He i

Underdeterminacy (law): none

Supersessionism: none

Justice: 
thics. Throughout history various theories have been established. Advocates of divine command theory argue that justice issues from God. In the 1600s, theorists like John Locke argued for the theory of natural law. Thinkers in the social contract tradition argued that justice is derived f

Legal process (jurisprudence): 
erbert Wechsler, Henry Hart, Albert Sacks and Lon Fuller, and their students such as John Hart Ely and Alexander Bickel. The school grew in the 1950s and 1960s. To this day, the school's influence remains broad.

Rechtsstaat: none

Ronald Dworkin: 
sor to renowned philosopher H. L. A. Hart. An influential contributor to both philosophy of law  and political philosophy, Dworkin received the 2007 Holberg International Memorial Prize in the Humanities for "his pioneering scholarly work" of "worldwide impact.""Ronald Dworkin". ''New Yor

Hugo Grotius: 


Retributive justice: 
ersSee: ''Schadenfreude'', sadism and employs procedural standards. Classical texts advocating the retributive view include ''De Legibus'' (1st century BC), Kant's ''Science of Right'' (1790), and Hegel's ''Philosophy'' ''of Right'' (1821).  The concept is found in most world cultures and in m

Duncan Kennedy (legal philosopher): none

Analytical jurisprudence: none

Hans Köchler: 


Jeremy Bentham: 


Political naturalism: none

Libertarian theories of law: none

Rule of law: 
niquity in judgment. You shall not favor the wretched and you shall not defer to the rich. In righteousness you are to judge your fellow."  In 1215, Archbishop Stephen Langton gathered the Barons in England and forced King John and future sovereigns and magistrates back under the rule o

Lorenzo Peña: none

Legal science: none

State of emergency: 


Prediction theory of law: none

Robert Alexy: 
enburg, Germany) is a jurist and a legal philosopher.  Alexy studied law and philosophy at the University of Göttingen. He received his PhD in 1976 with the dissertation ''A Theory of Legal Argumentation'', and he achieved his Habilitation in 1984 with a ''Theory of Constitutional Rights

Natural justice: none

Law in action: none

Letter and spirit of the law: none

Fritz Berolzheimer: 
ophie''

Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel: 
roduction to their translation of this later text that the term is more strongly associated with English movement in that later part of the 19th century (Hackett: 1991, xiii). in which the dualisms of, for instance, mind and nature and subject and object are overcome. His philosophy of spirit

Friedrich von Hayek: 


Juan de Mariana: 


Philosophy of copyright: none

Original meaning: none

Nicolas Barnaud: 
hemicum''. on the Aelia Laelia Crispis puzzle inscription, included the alchemical Mass of Nicholas Melchior, still of disputed authorship. The 1599 ''Triga chemica: de lapide philosophico tractatus tres''online scans. was the first publication of the ''Book of Lamspring'', by the unknown

New Covenant: none

Scepticism in law: none

Torture: 
5 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Signatories of the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and the Additional Protocols I and II of 8 June 1977 officially agree not to torture captured persons in armed conflicts, whether international or internal. Torture is also prohibited for the s

Positivism: 
been a recurrent theme in the history of western thought,. the modern approach was formulated by the philosopher Auguste Comte in the early 19th century. Comte argued that, much as the physical world operates according to gravity and other absolute laws, so does society, and further develope

Legal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy: 
s that legal education reinforces class, race, and gender inequality.Publication history The article was first self-published as a pamphlet in 1983.http://duncankennedy.net/documents/Photo%20articles/LEHR_Introduction.pdf The pamphlet was subsequently reviewed in several major law journ

Legalism (theology): none

International Association for Philosophy of Law and Social Philosophy: 


Legal moralism: 
 The debate between moralism and liberalism attracted much attention following the publication by the UK Parliament of the Wolfenden Report in 1957, which recommended that homosexuality should be decriminalised on the basis that the function of the law "is not... in our view... to inter

Julius Binder: 
 German philosopher of law. He is principally known as an opponent of legal positivism, and for having remained as an active scholar during the 1930s in Nazi Germany who did not speak out against the prevailing government of that time.

Pandectists: 


António Castanheira Neves: 


Labor theory of property: none

Richard Posner: 
merican jurist and economist who was a United States Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago from 1981 until 2017,  and is a senior lecturer at the University of Chicago Law School. He is a leading figure in the field of law and economics, and

Law and economics: 
on.  However, to apply economics to analyze the law regulating nonmarket activities is relatively new.  A European law & economics movement around 1900 did not have any lasting influence.Kristoffel Grechenig & Martin Gelter, The Transatlantic Divergence in Legal Thought: American Law and Eco

Philippe de Mornay: 
s, was a French Protestant writer and 

Alf Ross: 
best known as one of the leading exponent

John Austin (legal philosopher): 


Freedom of contract: none

Legal positivism: 
 theoretical foundations for such developments to occur. The most prominent legal positivist writer in English has been H. L. A. Hart, who, in 1958, found common usages of "positivism" as applied to law to include the contentions that:  laws are commands of human beings;  there is no ne

Biblical law in Christianity: none

Manuel de Lardizábal y Uribe: 
Miguel de Lardizábal y Uribe''' (1744–1820) was a Novohispanic penologist who was an academician of the Real Academia Española de la Lengua from 1775 to 1820. He seems to have been the successor to chair C of his father in law, Academician from 1746 to 1775 Francisco Antonio de Angulo.  Ki

Law and literature: 
wned publication, ''The Legal Imagination'', is often credited with initiating the law and literature movement.  This book, first published in 1973, is a fusion of anthology and critique, superficially resembling a traditional legal casebook but drawing on a much wider and more diverse 

Emerich de Vattel: 


Legal formalism: none

Postglossator: 
al Roman law.  The school of the ''glossators'' in Bologna lost its vitality, resulting in the rise of a new school of legal thought in the 14th century, centred on Orléans in France. Bartolus was the most famous of the commentators. Rather than simply seeking to explain the law, the comment

Leon Petrazycki: 
cki''' (Polish: Leon Petrażycki; Russian: ''Лев Иосифович Петражицкий'' [Lev Iosifovich Petrazhitsky]; Vitebsk Governorate, 13 April 186715 May 1931, Warsaw) was a Russian and Polish philosopher, legal scholar, and sociologist.  He is considered an important forerunner of the sociology o

Divine command theory: none

Lon L. Fuller: 
rd University for many years, and is noted in American law for his contributions to both jurisprudence and the law of contracts. His debate in 1958 with the prominent British legal philosopher H. L. A. Hart in the ''Harvard Law Review'' (Vol. 71) was important in framing the modern confl

Jurisprudence: 
per understanding of legal reasoning, legal systems, legal institutions, and the role of law in society.  Modern jurisprudence began in the 18th century and was focused on the first principles of natural law, civil law, and the law of nations. General jurisprudence can be divided into categor

Positive law: none

Roberto Mangabeira Unger: 


Legal pluralism: none

A Failure of Capitalism: none

Zechariah Chafee: none

Norm (philosophy): none

Decisionism: none

Legal realism: none

First possession theory of property: none

The Case of the Speluncean Explorers: 
"'''The Case of the Speluncean Explorers'''" is an article by legal philosopher Lon L. Fuller first published in the ''Harvard Law Review'' in 1949. Largely taking the form of a fictional judgment, it presents a legal philosophy puzzle to the reader and five possible solutions in the fo

Law as integrity: none

Natural law: 
e American Revolution'' (University Park, Penn.: The Pennsylvania State University Press, 1977), 71.Thomas Jefferson wrote to James Madison in 1826 that before the Revolution, the first volume of Coke's ''Institutes of the Laws of England'' "was the universal elementary book of law stude

John Locke: 


Thomas Hobbes: 


François Hotman: 


